The Joe Rogan experience. Work that I've done in the past,
particularly with the urban explorers that got me into a lot of trouble. I mean,
I got arrested. Um, my,
all of the people that I worked with ended up getting arrested because the
police got my notes. And, uh, I mean, it was, uh, it was a terrible,
terrible situation. Well, I, so we, I was,
I was going out with these urban explorers into all of this subterranean
infrastructure underneath London. And after we went into those sewer systems,
then we got into electricity tunnels. Then we started getting into bunkers.
So these are all illegal. These are like layers under the city.
So imagine there's like, you know, five layers under the city, right?
So we go from those sewers to the electricity, to total us, to the, uh,
infrastructural systems, to the bunkers.
And then we started getting into what are called deep level systems. Right.
And they're, they're, they're very similar to, uh,
the bunkers that the U S government is building here that they called,
they called doms deep underground military bases. Right.
We started getting into like serious critical infrastructure,
like at some point, how easy was it to get into those?
It took us years. It took us years. There's quite a lot of research,
but I mean, at some point we got into, uh, what are called the,
the BT deep level tunnels, British telecommunications, deep level tunnels.
And we were like inside the telecommunications trunk for all of the
United Kingdom, you know, um,
and at this point we're like, you know, a hundred feet underground,
120 feet underground. We were actually, we were walking through,
uh, this tunnel about, you know, about a hundred feet underground.
And one of the explorers I was with is like, there's a,
there's a manhole above us. It was like, what do you, what do you mean?
There's a manhole above us, you know, we're like,
we're in the deepest level right now. Um,
and we popped this manhole and a camera swivels, you know,
and stares at us like, oh God. And then we realized we were into some,
some critical. So it was just,
it was just telecommunication hubs. Right.
It's just like the trunk of all of the, the, the,
the infrastructure for fiber optics and phone lines. And they.
Just have unexposed manhole cover and a tunnel that you can get to. Yeah.
And we.
Wiggled through, like, we wiggled from tunnel to tunnel,
like through tiny crevices.
We were getting into like the deep underbelly of the city. I mean, it was not,
it was not easy to get to, but,
but here's the thing at the same time we had been cracking all of the,
the abandoned tube stations, Metro stations in London. Right.
So we took a,
we took a map of the tube from 1932 and we set a
map from, uh, 2008 on top of it.
And what you see are a bunch of stations that are no longer on the map, right.
That's your first clue. So there were like 47. Then we,
then we started doing research and we figured out that there there's gotta be at
least 14 stations that still have like ticket offices or
platforms are there, like there's something there that you could find.
So we started sneaking into the tube to go and find these places.
Like we would wait until the train stopped at two in the morning. And they,
we would like climb up a bridge and get onto the tracks and we'd run through the
tunnels. And we,
and we refining these stations one after another incredible time
capsules, you know, where there were artifacts left behind posters,
like we'd find tickets on the ground from 40, 40 years old. You know,
I mean really cool stuff. Some of the, a lot of these stations were,
were bombed out during world war II. Um, but, uh,
finding these, like, again, this kind of like,
like here's the archeologist semi, right?
Like we were having this visceral connection to history.
We were finding this stuff that was giving us like a real sense of being inside
history in material terms. So we're,
we're posting every time we crack one of these stations we posted on our blogs
or like, oh, we've, you know, we've cracked Mark Lane,
we've cracked down street, we've cracked whatever.
And we're all excited about it. And, and like the window's narrowing and we,
we get, we get towards the end of the 14 stations and we're starting to think,
you know,
like the cops are surely watching what we're doing, right.
The British transport police, and kind of know where we're going to go next.
Cause there's only a few stations left. So we stopped posting stuff.
And on Christmas of 2012,
we cracked the last station underneath the British museum, uh, which like,
there's all sorts of cool stories about like, there was a,
there was a ghost in here it's a haunted station and whatever,
but we did it and we never got caught. So for me,
this is the end of the research project.
Like a year of being like retroactively prosecuted for
this. We'll get, we'll get there. So.
I'm done with my research project. I've written my PhD.
I published my first book, explore everything about a lover or a,
or I hadn't published the book yet actually. And I fly,
I fly to Cambodia to work on a totally different research project. Right?
Like I'm switching gears, I'm going to go do something else.
And I fly back from Cambodia via Singapore and the plane lands
at Heathrow. And you know, the thing goes off ding,
and you stand up and you get your bags and then nothing's happening.
And they say, can everyone, please sit down again. And I sit down,
I look out the plane and there's cop cars everywhere. And I'm like, oh.
You know, I came from Singapore, someone brought drugs. I don't know.
There's a terrorist and look like, like who I have no idea what's going on.
And the cops get on the plane and they're like 42, K 42 K Dr. Garrett. Yeah.
You're coming with us. Okay. So they cuffed me.
They, they have me like retrieve my bag from the baggage claim and they take me
through, through passport control in handcuffs.
And obviously the UK government's like, yeah.
W we'll go ahead and keep that passport. Thank you.
So they eventually charged me with, um,
conspiracy to commit criminal damage.
Now what's weird about England is that trespass. Isn't a criminal offense.
So you can't,
you can't charge people with trespass unless you're in very specific
circumstances.
So they tried out this charge of conspiracy to commit criminal damage because
it's, it's about intention. It's a thought crime.
Like if I text you and I'm like, Hey dude, uh, you know,
the bar is closed right now. Cause it COVID, you want to break in and just like,
pour ourselves a beer. And you're like, yeah, let's do it.
Like we've committed conspiracy to commit criminal damage.
Like we've committed to the crime. So, uh, anyway,
we for years were dragged through the British legal system and I got trapped in
the UK for three years. Well, they kept my passport dude.
I was trapped there.
And here's where it kids really weird is that when the plane landed at
Singapore, there was a,
a journalist from GQ who was supposed to meet us.
Cause we were going to take him into some of this subterranean infrastructure
and show him all these spaces. And he's like, you know,
by the time I got out of jail, like 48 hours later, um, I had,
I had all these messages from like you. I came,
I showed up at the airport and you weren't there and whatever, you.
Know, and I finally find this guy, Matthew power. And.
He, and he's like, are you serious? Like you got,
cause we had timed it to land at the same time. And he's like, you serious,
you got arrested at that moment. And he said, what about your house? I said,
I have no idea.
So we go to my house and we unlock the door with these keys that the police had
given me because they took down my door with a battering Ram. Right. And then,
you know, like put some padlocks on there that they drilled into the,
the door and the doorframe.
And I open it up in my apartment has just been ravaged, right? Like stuff ever.
The mattress has flipped over. All the cupboards are torn apart.
There's like pieces of the door all over the floor and underneath all of it,
there was, uh,
a job contract from the university of Oxford to do a post-doc after I,
because I had just finished my PhD.
And the journalist from GQ. He's like, dude, I can go home right now.
We've got this story. I don't need to explore anything I've done.
And how did it resolve? Well.
The, um, by the time we got to court, I mean th the, the prosecution,
it was just in shambles. I mean,
it was a total debacle because there was no evidence that we had broken
anything, you know, two laws you had just trespass, which is we just trespassed.
Yeah. But they spent, you know, 300,000 pounds, I don't know,
$400,000 of taxpayer money to run this prosecution.
So they were going to see it to the end and essentially, um, you know, they got,
they, they confiscated my computers, my hard drives my notebooks.
And, uh, that was the,
that was the central component of the evidence that was used to prosecute
everyone. So essentially, like I just made a deal with them. I was like, look,
I'll, I'll take a hit. You know, if you just like,
everyone else can just get off, you know, I'll take the hit for it.
So I pled guilty to, uh, uh, I think it was four counts of criminal damage,
which included damage to his screw from a board that I had taken off and
put back on to event shaft. I know, slide sliding,
open a window. Oh, that was aiding.
And abetting side opened a window for someone to crawl through. I mean,
it was just like a list of ridiculous things,
but they didn't care cause they just, they needed there. They needed a win,
you know? So I gave him that, but now I've got no,
I've got this criminal record in England.
So when you land, you get pulled aside. If you go to England.
I used to, I actually filed the complaint with the government and I, you know,
they would like severely harass me. And then when I moved to Australia,
I had the same problem. Like they had put flags on my passport. Um,
and you filed a complaint and did it go through the complaint and they fixed it.
They took the flags off the passport. Yeah. Essentially saying like, you know,
I did my thing, you know? Yeah. Like,
why do I have to keep paying for this over and over again? So,
but it was really funny when I tried, when they,
when they originally gave me my passport back. So like,
I go to court and then they're, you know, the judge is like, Dr. Garrett,
you're very naughty or.
Whatever, you know, here's your hair, take your passport back.
They have wigs on. Yes. The wigs are fantastic. Yeah. They still do that.
They still do that. They're really good. That's real. Yeah.
Yeah. The barristers all have their wigs and they can carry them around like,
like a cat and then they have to put it on when they're to put it on two dots,
one bonkers. But so like, so they gave me my passport back and I,
and the next day I was supposed to fly to Sydney to go speak at the
festival of dangerous ideas. I was the obvious speaker.
And I go to the airport and the guy swipes it.
And he's like, oh yeah, you don't want to use this. I was like,
what w what does it say? What does the screen say? And he's like, I can't,
I can't relay that, but you should probably go,
it gives me a password back. And then I should probably leave the country. No,
like you should not get on a plane with this. Like,
you're going to have a problem on the other side, you know, whatever he was.
Can you travel well, exactly. So then,
so then I missed my flight and I had to go back.
I had to go to the U S embassy and I'm like, you know, I've,
I've just tried to fly with my passport and it doesn't work.
And the guy at the embassy swipes that, and he says, oh, wow.
And then he gets out a whole puncher and he goes, don't.
Don't write through my passport. And he says, you shouldn't use that.
And then like three hours later, they gave me another passport and I flew out.
And the passport is good. The new one's good is fine.
Yeah. Wow. But then I, but then I started getting stopped again. So they, like,
I don't know, tack the flags on there later. I mean, it was a real ordeal,
but th th you know, the thing, I mean, it was, it was, it was traumatic for me.
Of course it was like stuck in a foreign country. And, you know, like,
you get worried about your income.
I guess it was worried about being D they did try to deport me at some point.
Cause once you have a criminal offense, they can try and deport. So anyway,
I beat down. Do they find you.
Like, what was the ultimate judgment? Yeah.
Yeah, it was, I think he was to 2000 pounds, about $3,000. I got fined.
Um.
Not, not too bad, not a big deal. Sure. You made some money off the book.
If not, you're gonna make some now, you know what dude, I.
I made, I made, uh, all the money that I made on my first book,
explore everything, went to my lawyers, who I have to say were phenomenal.
Like they did a great job, but it was like, every time I get a royalty check,
I'd just sign it over.
To them, you know? And it did seem like karma.
It was like, well, I broke into all this.
And then I wrote a book and then the money went to the lawyers and the lawyers
got me off and it all kind of worked out.